Hey guys, welcome back.
In this clip, I'm gonna talk about
what the heck IoT is all about.
You've heard this done so
many times, Internet of Things.
First, let me start with, what is this
thing in Internet of Things, right?
What is a thing?
So let's kind of dream up all
of the objects in our house,
the lowly lawn sprinkler,
the proverbial light bulb.
We can't talk about IoT without
bringing up the light bulb.
There'd be a d'état.
So I put it in there.
Maybe your glasses, okay,
your reading glasses.
And a bottle of whiskey, right?
These are things that are in your house.
Without any connectivity,
they're kind of plain.
But, let's assume each of these guys
have some sort of connectivity.
They can kind of transmit a little bit
of data or receive some data or both.
Suddenly, they become interesting.
Let's take an example.
So in other words,
they have some sort of connectivity.
I'm not talking about in a full blown IP,
but
they have some forms of short range
communication where they can occasionally
wake up, say something about
themselves to a neighboring device or
to a server or interact with a human,
all kinds of possibilities.
They don't need actual power,
they can be battery powered.
Let's take the sprinkler for example.
It could be combined with it
could have sensors to measure
the moisture in your soil.
So it can shut itself
off when there's rain.
It only comes on when the soil is
sufficiently dry, the light bulb.
I mean think of landscaping in your yard,
right?
You can now set it to come on at dusk and
and go off when it's sunrise.
Those things already exist but,
you know, you can push to another level.
Your reading glasses, right?
Think of Google Glasses.
I'm not gonna say anything more about it.
I know there are lovers and haters.
And finally a bottle of whiskey.
Hey, what can you do
with a bottle of whiskey?
Actually Johnny Walker did some cool
stuff with a bottle of whiskey.
They made the labels pretty smart.
It has a little antenna in it.
It can detect number one if
the bottle has been opened or not.
They realize a lot of people when
they are about to purchase a bottle,
they are researching in their phones,
should I buy a single malt or blended, and
the research is happening typically
within five feet of the bottle.
And so this smart tack and
interact with your phone.
It knows I haven't been opened.
There's someone looking at me to buy me.
I haven't been opened yet.
That's another scenario.
So determines the state so
it can someway communicate.
And also, and if it's been opened,
it knows that and
it communicates it to your phone it's like
it knows it's already been bought, so
interaction would be slightly different.
It's kind of like I should say
when you're dating someone and
you get married,
it's different interaction, right?
You already have someone,
least kind of bottle.
And also the other cool thing for
Father's Day.
You can create a customized thing for
your dad, a video message, and
he scans the bottle and he gets to
see what you have planned for him.
Anyway, bottom line, these things when
they have some Internet connectivity
become Internet of things then
new possibilities emerge.
Here's data which suggest
from it's not my chart, but
borrowed from my garder, how these
things are growing, the growth rate.
If you look at the chart the red is
typically the personal computers,
which are connected to the Internet.
They kind of flattened out.
Smartphones are growing.
More smartphones, tablets.
But if you look at the one,
the biggest growth is going to
be in this Internet of Things.
These dumb things which shouldn't have
connectivity suddenly have connectivity.
And that's going to be exploding.
They say about roughly 50
billion devices by 2020.
So take it for what it's worth.
The exact numbers may not matter, but the
fact is it's growing at an alarming pace.
Let's get back to what the heck is IoT?
Let's go back maybe 15 years.
We had the television.
It was still broadcast,
you are watching what was fed to you.
TV was not connected to the Internet
until the set up boxes came around.
When I was growing up India I was
telling my American friend hey man,
we didn't even have a remote control.
So he was asking what?
How do you watch?
Did you have a service industry where
someone was changing channels for you?
I said no man we only one channel.
We didn't need a remote.
So that's kind of how I grew up,
but now the boxes came around.
You could now control your TV remotely,
right?
The smartphones arrived,
the apps were there.
Now you started watching TV on your phone.
You could also record
shows from your phone.
So in other words,
putting the TV on the net created a new
kind of interaction between
the smartphone and your TV.
Let's take one step further right,
what's the next big thing in your house?
The refrigerator, the fridge, and
imagine your fridge being smart.
In other words can become aware of at any
times what kind of food items in your
fridge, and it can let's say
communicate that to your phone, and
there's a recipe app in your phone, or
an Amazon app in your phone which can tell
you, hey, based on what's in your fridge,
these are the dishes you can make.
And if you don't have it, let's say you
can click order and Amazon certainly,
it can deliver via drones within
30 minutes, once you order.
So you can have your
thing delivered to you,
pick up from your drone,
make your dish, right?
I mean, I got to tell you,
when I was a kid I didn't have a fridge or
the Internet of Things.
But I had good food from my mom.
But this is, I guess, we call progress,
like a smart fridge, right.
Let's keep going, the thermostat.
You've heard of companies like Nest,
we will acquire,
which can smartly control energy in your
house based on different parameters.
The smart toilet.
Yeah, believe it or not,
they're making smart toilets.
You may think like,
put the toilet on the net.
Who gives a shit?
But, no pun intended, but
there are smart toilets.
You can put sensors in the toilet
which can analyze the urine and
detect diseases at an early stage and
that can communicate that to your phone or
your health provider or what not.
But these do toilets to exist.
I have an idea for
Capstone project, maybe you should
create an ad which changes
itself Friday night at 9 pm.
Because it knows that's the way it's
going to be when you come back from
the bars right?
So, let's keep going.
Put your dog on the net.
Say what the hell, dog you pet on the net.
There was a company called Petcell,
which is making these cellphone collars.
You can put it on your dog.
When you call the dog it'll automatically
answer and put it on speakerphone,
because he knows you're calling.
You can talk to the dog, it'll hear you
talking, and what's it going to say?
Probably rattle the poor thing.
But I don't know if
the company is still around,
but that's kind of putting
your pet on the net, and
probably if you get telemarketing calls,
you can direct it to your dog,
maybe one use of it,
next step is fork, a smart fork.
Everyone's trying to lose weight, right?
One thing is your brain,
when you're eating,
tells you five minute later then
when you get actually full.
So by the time you've overshot,
you stuff yourself.
And by the time your brain tells you
you're full, you're beyond full.
You're about to explode.
So one thing is to slow
down the pace you eat.
So you can stop,
right the time you get full.
And this fork, search for happy fork.
Fork.
This company had the idea where
it measures, it has sensors,
how many bites you take and
can vibrate to help you slow down.
And it's got Bluetooth in there.
It can communicate that to your phone.
At the end of your meal it shows
you how many bites you've taken.
Over 200 it says, stop being a pig, and
it can give you feedback
on how you're eating.
So as you can see is wide
of range of products.
And then who knows what is coming next,
right?
Have you heard of Volkswagen beating
the system by shutting down the emissions
when the tests are happening.
So devices are getting smarter and
smarter.
It doesn't matter what the next device is
our goal is to put you
in the middle of it.
Whatever you dream up we want
you to be able to build it and
what are the skills you need for that,
that's what this specialization focuses
on so we're gonna help you get there.
So that's kind of my version of
innovative things and you of course
may disagree with me but kind of roughly
hopefully you're on the same page.